import Post from 'components/Post/post';

export const meta = {
  title: 'Why is coding hard?',
  summary: 'You will feel pain at the beginning but you will grow.',
  published: true,
  publishedAt: '2020-09-03',
};

export default ({ children }) => <Post meta={meta}>{children}</Post>;

[tip1]: https://i.giphy.com/media/4JVTF9zR9BicshFAb7/source.gif
[tip3]: https://media.giphy.com/media/c5eqVJN7oNLTq/source.gif
[tip4]: https://media.giphy.com/media/J1GUY5w1oCos7kvUlC/giphy.gif

In coding, there are a lot of ups and downs that you will encounter as you
travel on your coding journey — things that will make you stay up till midnight
because you’re looking for that missing curly brace in your code, things that
will get you up early morning because you have this cool idea that you want to
implement, and things that will hit you hard in the head with a brick and will
bring you down to your knees.

We all started as beginners, as people who are curious about software, as
people who want to build their software and share it with their friends and
families, or as people who just want to make a living through coding.

The feeling that coding is hard comes from the fact that you’re not only
learning how to code but you are also learning how to learn and among other
things involved. __you’re like a fish out of water.__

You will feel pain at the beginning but you will grow.

Sometimes you will find yourself talking to your computer. Sometimes coding can
drive you crazy so you need to find some time to take a break or maybe learn a
different set of skills to get a refresh.

Coding is like a wide range of canvas that extends base on your imagination and
passion where you can code or build anything that you want or need.

So I have some tips for you before you say I give up.

## Tip #1: Keep it simple

When learning we can easily get overwhelmed by the broad spectrum of topics to
learn in programming that could easily get us off track. You may ask “what
should I do to avoid this?”. Well, you will need a guide.

Keep it simple. I’ve carried this guide throughout both of my personal life and
my career as a web developer as well and I’ve seen great results using
simplicity as my compass whether it’s solving a problem, learning, writing, or
coding. Simplicity gives me the ability to focus on what is important and keep
me away from overthinking and overdoing things. It saves me time and effort.

![Confused Guy][tip1]

At first, you need to put all these new trendy frameworks/languages aside. Just
pick one of ’em that best suits your needs and start from there. The important
part is that you are making progress and not procrastinating about the infinite
number of frameworks or programming languages available for you to choose.

Many of those frameworks or programming languages have a lot of things in
common anyway so don’t worry too much about not knowing them upfront. Learn one
of ’em and master the basics then you can immediately transition to others
using the knowledge and concepts that you’ve learned from your first pick.

## Tip #2: Don’t memorize the codes

While you are writing codes you may notice that it is difficult or if not
impossible to remember all these codes. Stop memorizing and start remembering
or saving somewhere the reference or sources of that information. Codes will
automatically get stuck in your head if you keep using them daily. But what if
it doesn’t?

Bookmark your sources using your browser (assuming it’s a website) or save it
in your computer or mobile phone choose the one that is most accessible to you
wherever you are. I often save them on my laptop because it is always with me
and it is where I spend most of my time studying & coding (it’s my life) or
sometimes I write them down on a bug called me notebook.

Don’t get stuck watching tutorials on youtube or other online platforms even
though they are a great resource to learning. Sometimes they’re also like a
double-edged sword and you have to be aware of the trade-offs.

## Tip #3: It’s time to build things

![Building Things][tip3]

The best way to learn is to practice by building projects (small or large) with
the language or framework that you’re learning because once you encounter a
problem that you already solved while building these projects you don’t need to
waste your time trying to solve it multiple times. You can just go back and
check the source code of that previous project and apply it as your solution
after doing a couple of rounds of tweaks. Give yourself a time to experiment
make some tweaks, mess with your code, break it then observe. See what changed?
How does it affect the look or the functionality of your app? How does it work?

When you’re done building the project, don’t forget to put it on your portfolio
for future opportunities. You’ll never know who will knock on your door asking
if you can work on a project that is similar to what you already have on your
portfolio. When this happens you’re on your way to earn some good money but
remember the experience, mistakes, and lessons that you will gain down the
road. Because It is greater than the money itself (and that is why I’m broke
right now, lol).

Many people might have a different problem that requires a different tech to
solve. So you need to be open in learning new things on the spot.

Remember that the project that you build doesn’t need to look great or work,
but you need to at least learn a thing or two, and then build another one.

## Tip #4: Go beyond

![Go beyond][tip4]

If you made it this far. Congrats! Now it’s time to go beyond and learn more.
Coding is a never-ending learning experience. This is your life now. Consider
giving back by producing content, writing blog posts, contributing to
open-source projects, or teaching others. Because the second-best way to learn
next to practice is to teach.

Your brain has to be fed with new concepts, ideas, hacks, and techniques every
now and then.

At some point, you will get stuck but don’t shy away from seeking out and
asking silly questions. There are many programmers out there willing to help a
guy like you. So don’t stop just keep moving forward, keep asking questions,
and keep learning. Rewards will follow…

Happy Coding!
